AZURE

PART 1:
1, Crahracteristic
Someone else infrastructure
We do not need to care about hardware, databases, storages, etc
Increase development velocity
Software as a service, pay for what you need
2. Advantages
Easys cale up and down
WE can use AI, IoT services
We can deploy on diferente regions and locations
Not responsable to keeps the ligths on
3.Use cases
Mobile backend
Message brokers
Web apps
Web apis
Whole microservice architecture 
Serverles functions

PART 2: YOUTUBE tutorial - MANUAL DEPLOYMENT
1. Create a resource group
2. Create ann App Service plan
determine the pricing, the CPU power and memory, etc.
we can have more than a web app in a service plan
then we can scale up and down in so far we need to
3. Create an app service
4. Create a sql server database
make it serverless, so when is not use it then it goes down to zero
serverless is great for development porpouses
networking: public endpoint
Enable: Add current client ip address and azure resources access to this server
then we can add our local IP address to talk with azure sql server
5. Create a sql database
get connection strings
create a user-secrets for local dev work
6. Create a publish profile from visual studio
7. Publish the profile
8. Go to app service Environment Variables and add the connection string

PART 3 - BlobStorage
1. Create a blob storage
2. Get access keys and copy to app.settings
3. Add a container to hold images for example
4. Create an azure CDN, so we can catch the images and response faster (Not available for student accounts)

PART 5 - Auth
1. Create a AD b2c tenant
2. Create a user flow
3. Check Email Auth provider
4. Check user claims and user attributes for the access token
5. Create an app registration for a web application
6. Add the callaback url
7. Create an app registratration for a web api
8. Add a scope for the web api
9. Go to the app registration for the web app and add a permisions (now if I go to the web app I will get the api scope	)
10. Create a secret for web app

PART 6 - APplication insigths
traces
| where message contains "MY_TRACKINGS"
| order by timestamp desc

PART 7 - Azure containers
1. Benefits
Container are package in a single image, all is there.
Is portable, can be run on different machines or operate systems because the image is inmutable
WOrks nice with cloud azure
Is isolated from the Operate system and other containers
We can scale up and down easily

2. Some azure container services
Azure container Registry (we push the images here)
App services
Azure functions
Azure container app: Kubernetes
Azure kubernetes services
Azure container services: for lightwait works

3. Run app on docker
Add docker support in visual studio
Open azure clud shell on azure
go to github a grab the GitHub CLI url
Run: gh clone "URL" in azure
You may need to authenticate agains github
run on azure cli:
	az acr --image blazor/web:v1 --registry acrcvssouthbraz.azurecr.io
		--file D:\repositories\OGCP-Curriculum-Blazor\src\Server\OGCP.Curriculums.BlazorServer